SURFACE CONCEPT SEED (key: 2327c40b; mode: unscoped; source: api; approved pool: c3b204a1eed6; 306/564 human-approved; rerun with --scope surface --from 2327c40b --candidate-count 7 to reproduce this roll against this catalog revision)
DEALT INDICES: 5, 6, 3 (index 5 leads)
  After ordering the task's grounded structural candidates by resonance,
  deal candidates 5, 6, 3 of your own grounded list to the
  table; index 5 leads, and the deal never points at a challenger.
  The deal is the roll, not a suggestion: the dice decide which structures
  reach the user, so the ranking rut stays broken while the user still gets a
  real choice, and the full ranked list stays yours. In an attended run,
  present the three dealt structures as full cards of equal salience, the
  lead carrying kicker THE ROLL, with steer and re-roll, and let the user
  lock one in; the world is already settled, so this choice is composition.
  Visualize every dealt card: with image generation available and a
  comp-led default (.impeccable/config.json buildPath; the page toggle
  handles the exception), declare a comp per card and generate after
  serving, lead first; otherwise author each card's wireframe field (see
  serve-question --schema) and the page draws the schematic. Carry the
  recorded default in the payload as buildPath with toggle: true. Locking a card
  approves its comp: a surface round that put three visualized structures on
  the table replaces the three-option comp round in visualize.md. Re-roll
  yourself only when every dealt structure fails audience identification or
  product clarity on named factual grounds.
  The assignment exists to refuse the model's ranking rut, never to outrank
  the user or the brief. Never expose assignment metadata in user-facing labels.
CHALLENGERS:
  1. a collider event display, particle tracks curving out of one frozen collision through onion rings of detector and into stacked calorimeter wedges
     SOURCE ID: scientific-notation-particle-detector-event-display
     CREATIVE SPARK: The event lands and the cross-section blooms: yellow tracks curl through the inner rings, two stiff blue lines punch straight to the muon chambers, and red energy bars stack in the calorimeter wedges like a sudden bar chart of violence.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: near-black vacuum ground, detector rings in muted steel blue, tracks in signal yellow and cyan by particle type, red calorimeter bars for deposited energy
       - Type/composition: spare technical grotesk labels pinned to tracks and wedges, momentum figures in tabular digits; the concentric ring section is the compositional law
       - Topology/navigation: space is concentric, beamline at center; you move outward through detector layers and along individual tracks, one event held at a time
       - Controls/state: select a track to isolate it and dim the rest; competing reconstruction hypotheses overlay as ghost tracks, confidence written as line weight
       - Responsive/motion: the ring section stays whole on phones while wedges and figures move to drawers; rotation is inertial 3D
     WEB LEVERAGE: WebGL renders thousands of curved tracks in one 3D scene, with drag rotation, zoom into detector layers, and picked tracks reporting momentum
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/scientific-notation-particle-detector-event-display.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/scientific-notation-particle-detector-event-display-hero.webp
  2. a live scene rendered as typewriter characters, where density of glyphs stands in for light and an at-sign can be a face if it moves correctly
     SOURCE ID: medium-native-ascii-live-scene-render
     CREATIVE SPARK: A rotating skull made entirely of dollar signs and periods; you squint and it is sculpture, you focus and it is text, and it is both at every distance.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: single-ink phosphor, green or amber on black; tone is glyph density from period to at-sign, and the densest glyph is the highlight
       - Type/composition: one strict monospace grid as the entire composition, the luminance ramp serving as the typographic scale, captions living inside the same grid
       - Topology/navigation: the world is a fixed character grid; you move the camera, and the alphabet re-renders the view.
       - Controls/state: the luminance ramp is the palette; swapping ramps changes mood while geometry stays put.
       - Responsive/motion: cell count adapts to viewport while glyphs stay monospace-true
     WEB LEVERAGE: Canvas or camera frames sample down to a live glyph grid, so video, 3D, and pointer input all become selectable text.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/medium-native-ascii-live-scene-render.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/medium-native-ascii-live-scene-render-hero.webp
  3. a state kiosk display of everyday printed goods, matchbox labels and juice cartons and tram tickets sharing one restricted ink set, each carrying a geometric mark from a central design office
     SOURCE ID: vernacular-ephemera-socialist-kiosk-print
     CREATIVE SPARK: a matchbox, a juice carton and a tram ticket, all printed in the same three inks by the same office, each with a small abstract mark that took somebody a month and nobody was allowed to sign.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: three permitted inks on gray recycled board, colors slightly off-register, paper stock varying between print runs
       - Type/composition: a geometric grotesque locked to a small grid, one abstract office mark per product, and no photograph anywhere
       - Topology/navigation: goods sit in a kiosk grid, so navigation is scanning the grid rather than descending a hierarchy
       - Controls/state: controls are product cells, the active one takes the third permitted ink, and out-of-stock cells print as an empty rule box
       - Responsive/motion: the kiosk grid reflows in whole cells only, and motion is a slight registration shift as a cell activates
     WEB LEVERAGE: a whole-cell responsive grid, css registration-shift animation on state, and stock state rendered as an empty rule box
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/vernacular-ephemera-socialist-kiosk-print.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/vernacular-ephemera-socialist-kiosk-print-hero.webp
  4. a small-press zine cover pulled on a duplicator in two spot inks, the layers deliberately misregistered so a third color appears where they overlap, paper showing through the halftone as visible open dots
     SOURCE ID: posters-covers-sleeves-risograph-zine-cover
     CREATIVE SPARK: Pink over blue, printed a hair out of line on purpose, and where they cross there is a third color the machine cannot actually make.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: fluorescent pink and medium blue on newsprint-weight stock, overlapping into a muddy third color, ink sitting visibly on the surface
       - Type/composition: display type set in one ink and imagery in the other, offset by a few millimeters so the overlap zone becomes its own shape
       - Topology/navigation: two layers move semi-independently, so navigation shifts one layer against the other to change what the overlap says
       - Controls/state: controls are layer offsets, the active one slides its ink out of register, and aligned states collapse the third color entirely
       - Responsive/motion: halftone dots hold their size while the image scales, and motion is one drum layer sliding against the other
     WEB LEVERAGE: css blend modes producing the overlap color, layer offset bound to interactive state, and a fixed-size halftone pattern
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/posters-covers-sleeves-risograph-zine-cover.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/posters-covers-sleeves-risograph-zine-cover-hero.webp
  5. a technical deep dive down a volcanic island wall, where one small diver leaves the turquoise surface, crosses a cold blue thermocline, and enters a mesophotic garden of black coral, glass sponges, and falling marine snow
     SOURCE ID: rivers-tides-ocean-depths-mesophotic-deep-dive
     CREATIVE SPARK: At forty meters the last warm red drains from the diver's gloves; a lamp clicks on, revealing black-coral branches and white particles falling past a wall with no visible floor.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: abyssal ink blue deepening by dive stage as the ground, chalk-white marine snow as particle texture, one thermocline cyan band marking the active depth
       - Type/composition: monospaced dive-computer digits for depth and gas beside quiet grotesk notes, one vertical depth axis ruling every line of copy
       - Topology/navigation: Descend through surface, thermocline, reef ledge, mesophotic wall, turnaround depth, ascent stops, and the vertical route home.
       - Controls/state: Descend, hover, illuminate, mark, turn, and ascend with daylight, cooling, dark, gas-limited, decompression, and surfaced states.
       - Responsive/motion: Pair the vertical dive profile with selected close views; stop drift and bubbles under
     WEB LEVERAGE: A synchronized depth-and-time scrub can change light, color, sound, species, and ascent obligations together, while any observation remains pinned to its exact depth and dive phase.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/rivers-tides-ocean-depths-mesophotic-deep-dive.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/rivers-tides-ocean-depths-mesophotic-deep-dive-hero.webp
  6. a monumental earthen tower built from visible coils, where compression, drying, and hand pressure leave a slow ascending record
     SOURCE ID: clay-ceramics-fracture-coiled-earth-tower
     CREATIVE SPARK: Broad clay ropes circle upward above the maker's head, each thumb-smoothed seam catching a different band of late light.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: raw terracotta and umber coil bands as the ground, slip-white seams as dividers, one damp dark clay ring marking the course in progress
       - Type/composition: broad low-contrast slab caps like stamped brick marks, text banded in horizontal courses, each line's measure matching its coil
       - Topology/navigation: Rise through courses while local joins, wall thickness, and overall silhouette remain connected.
       - Controls/state: Add, compress, brace, dry, and inspect with plastic, bearing, cracking, leather-hard, and fired states.
       - Responsive/motion: Convert the tower into an ordered vertical section and show construction growth only on request.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Incremental geometry can connect each course to time, maker action, and structural consequence without large assets.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/clay-ceramics-fracture-coiled-earth-tower.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/clay-ceramics-fracture-coiled-earth-tower-hero.webp
A challenger wins only when its fused result beats the grounded list on
  audience identification and product clarity. It may change task topology or
  interaction, but never the committed visual identity.
When you can view images, open the QUALITY BAR board and hero for any
challenger you weigh seriously and for the world you build. They exist as a
craft bar, the finish level and commitment the build is expected to reach,
never as a mockup to copy; your surface serves this product, not that render.
PRODUCT.md and DESIGN.md constrain every surface candidate's identity
vocabulary; they do not cancel task-level composition. The seed never
authorizes a new palette, type system, material world, or unfamiliar control
behavior.
The CREATIVE SPARK is a complete visual system, not a theme or decorative
reference. Translate every supplied system rule into the product: palette and
material, type and composition, topology, controls and states, and adaptation.
Keep the source's visible character, scale, rhythm, and interaction instead of
reducing vivid grammar to generic nouns. Keep a literal carrier only when it
becomes functional.
Ambitious motion, spatial media, or interaction is welcome when it strengthens
the product without weakening semantics, performance, or fallback behavior.
TELEMETRY: after the user's choice resolves, rerun this script once with
  --kind <assigned|pick|challenger|canon> --from 2327c40b --scope surface,
  adding --chosen <challenger-id> when a dealt challenger won and keeping
  --register <safer|bolder> when the resolved round came from a steered hand.
  One ping per resolved attended round. The ping is anonymous, the card kind
  plus the catalog id when one won; your grounded candidates' names never
  leave the machine, and the ping is skipped automatically when DO_NOT_TRACK
  or IMPECCABLE_NO_TELEMETRY is set.
A user- or brief-pinned decision beats the roll, always.
DEALT INDICES (restated for truncated readers): 5, 6, 3; index
5 leads. Present all three dealt structures; seed key 2327c40b.
